[narrator] Previously on The Blacklist:
If you took over for Reddington,
inherited the Blacklist...
One task, then it's done.
What could possibly be left for me to do?
To take my life.
I can't do it.
That's all right.
[gunshot]
[Dembe] Raymond, we must.
I'm sorry.
[Liz] How does it end?
[Raymond] You'll find out.
Her name is Elizabeth?
Do you believe in love at first sight?
I didn't.
Not till she walked into that restaurant.
I knew an Elizabeth.
I've only known her for two weeks,
but when you know, you know, am I right?
I never did.
But I'm glad you do.
Tell me about her.
Your Elizabeth.
She wasn't my Elizabeth.
She was my friend.
She died two years ago.
I'm sorry.
Truck's loaded up.
-Wire the payment and you're good to go.
-Yeah, listen, about that...
-The agreement was you come alone.
-Agreements change.
My associate's a trusting fellow.
He sees nothing but possibility
in stealing a truckload of microchips.
Especially when one
of the eagerly corrupt port employees
asks a lot of questions.
So I asked some of my own.
He's a cop.
What should I do about that?
Make sure he's never found.
Kill him.
Go on. Your partner's a cop.
Show me you're not one too.
See, I told you. Nothing to worry about.
[man 1] There's no blood.
[screaming]
Like I said, very trusting.
Up.
Lookie here.
Special Agent Dembe Zuma.
FBI.
No, no!
[man 1] See what the FBI knows first,
then kill him.
And get rid of the bodies.
You, get the truck. Go.
-There's a diamond ring in his pocket.
-I'm through trusting you.
It's two carats at least.
[man 2] Well, well...
What do you know?
No, no, no!
[suspenseful music playing]
A shootout at a Los Angeles port
left one FBI agent dead
and another wounded,
raising fears about disruption
in the supply of vital microchips.
With us to discuss the incident
is former
FBI deputy director Harold Cooper.
So, what happened and why?
The why is simple.
The world runs on microchips.
Our phones, our cars,
the planes we fly in.
The concern is that America manufactures
only 12% of the world's semiconductors.
The most advanced chips
are manufactured in Taiwan.
If our ability to import them
is threatened, so is our economy.
You're saying the attempted theft
poses a national security threat.
Absolutely.
-What are you watching?
-My ex-boss.
[Cooper] The bureau assigned
an undercover team
to infiltrate and identify
the perpetrators,
which I'm told they were unable to do.
[anchor] In the past two years...
Why are we listening to this? You aren't
taking the meeting with Conroy seriously.
It's okay. I'm prepared for it.
No one's prepared for Conroy.
You endure Conroy.
You suffer him.
You supplicate yourself
in the microscopically vain hope
that he will agree to be
an angel investor in our idea,
which, to date, is notable only
for costing us our life savings.
So, you know...
I need you to focus on that.
-Only that.
-Okay.
I got you, Nick.
Criminal empires are
like authoritarian regimes,
often ruled by a single
all-powerful leader.
When that power becomes
decentralized or fractured,
it leads to a period
of chaos and instability.
So when the leader of a criminal
organization steps down or dies,
there's inevitably a rise in crime
as others fight over what he left behind.
Reddington.
You're saying powerful crime bosses
make the world safer.
[Cooper] There are lots of criminals
we don't know exist.
The best crime bosses know them
and have the power to keep them in check.
When they stop doing that,
yes, the world is less safe as a result.
[groaning]
I can boost your meds.
[Dembe] It's fine now.
My friend.
I came as soon as I could.
-How is he?
-[nurse] Stubborn.
His flak jacket acted like a furnace.
He's got third degree burns
on his arms and torso
and not enough pain meds in him.
Not until we talk.
So you're the reason.
I'll give you a few minutes.
Please talk.
So he can have some peace.
I need to find him.
The man who killed Laver.
[Dembe groaning]
The passcode,
I-S-H-Q.
The first photo.
Six months undercover, I don't know
the buyer, all I have is that.
Both mercs had it.
-Do you know what it means?
-No.
Neither does anyone at the bureau.
But we both know who might.
-When was the last time you spoke?
-A year and a half.
I can't reach him.
But you have Agnes, so I assume you can.
What's the protocol?
How will he make contact?
I'm getting too old for this.
What were you thinking?
Killing an FBI agent.
You're putting us at risk.
Jeopardizing the brand.
You gave me this opportunity.
So I come when you call
and I listen to you blah-blah-blah
about playing it so safe,
that if I didn't know better,
I'd say you were once
the CEO of an insurance company.
But I do know better.
Better than an old fool
the world's passed by.
What you see as a problem,
I see as an opportunity.
I doubt the buyer thinks
his microchips getting incinerated
-is much of an opportunity.
-Plan A was to get the product.
Plan B is to get to the secret
to how the product is made.
That way the buyer
can make the product themselves.
There's gonna be an investigation.
Things could get exposed.
If I were you, I'd let it go.
You were me.
And you gave it all up to play golf.
May I borrow this?
Gonna hit some balls?
Yeah.
Might give them a whack.
[man] It's not my fault.
I told you everything I knew
about where the chips would be.
How could I know the FBI was watching?
That's all in the past.
The plans have changed.
I need to know how to make them.
The knowledge and the processing software.
The person who can give me both
is your boss.
-Where does he live?
-I don't know.
You golf?
Are the fingers supposed
to be interlocked?
Forget it.
If get it wrong, I'll take a, uh--
What do you call it?
A mulligan?
Yes. A mulligan.
Thank you.
[screams]
[Cuban jazz music playing]
Perfect timing.
I'm not here to drink.
I know why you're here.
I've sent for the doctor.
Came to see Reddington.
Which is why I called the doctor.
Like you, I follow protocol.
You put a mark on a mailbox,
I call the doctor.
If Reddington wants you to find him,
you will. If he doesn't, you won't.
Sit. Drink.
The doctor will be here soon.
A list of sights to see in Havana.
I highly recommend La Cabaña.
I'm leaving as soon
as I speak with Reddington.
I'm sure you will.
But that won't be for a few days.
There was a flood in the Amazon.
-The Amazon?
-Mm-hm.
I thought he was in Cuba.
He might be.
-Eventually.
-I can't wait.
This is why I came.
It's urgent.
Once you finish his scan
and his identity is verified,
I'll call the sisters.
[in Kaqchikel]
Together, we connect heaven and earth.
Together, we free our spirits.
[in English] Look at me.
Come closer.
I'm here to see Reddington.
[speaking in Kaqchikel]
[in English] Crack it into the water.
What do you see?
The shape.
Tell me.
[Cooper] A cloudy orb.
The sun breaking through the clouds.
Is that good or bad?
You may pass.
Very few do.
Go.
I will watch over you.
How is Agnes?
She's good.
Thriving.
I see you've met Weecha.
[Cooper] And a bartender who drugged me.
And a shaman who rubbed me with an egg.
Hmm. Weecha protects my body.
Mierce, my soul.
I wouldn't have survived the past
two years if I hadn't found them.
What do you want, Harold?
It's about Dembe.
How is Special Agent Zuma?
In the hospital with third degree burns.
His partner was shot and killed.
We don't know anything about
the assailants except for this tattoo.
You don't wanna show me that.
I do if it will help Dembe.
During the past two years,
I've learned what to hold onto
and what to let go of.
If I look at that,
if I come back even once...
I fear all that work will be for nothing.
There would be names to be taken.
People would be held accountable.
Down the line, things would get very dark.
[Cooper] Then don't come back.
But tell me what I need to know.
The symbol.
Do you know it?
Yes.
-You know who we're looking for?
-I do.
A 700-year-old pirate.
[in Mandarin] It's all here.
Hotel address, plane tickets,
rental car info.
I'd be lost without you.
Don't look so worried.
If the meetings go well,
we could be building
a new plant in America
by this time next year.
You land tomorrow.
You'll have a day before your flight
to Washington, D.C.
Please tell me you're doing something
fun while we're away.
Pai-han's idea of fun is solving
what happened at the port.
I've told him to leave it to the police,
but he won't let it go.
If you need anything,
if anything happens, call me.
You're silly.
What could happen?
Nothing. Don't listen to me.
Go. Have fun.
[speaking Mandarin]
[cell phone dialing]
[in English]
I'm sending you his itinerary.
Chen's staying at the Fountain Grand
with his wife and daughter.
The more the merrier.
FBI!
Open the door!
[suspenseful music playing]
Put your hands where we can see them!
[Park] You're all dead!
Well, that sucked.
-Perkins?
-We didn't sweep every room.
-First rule after a breach?
-Sweep every room.
Let's run it again.
-Hello, Alina.
-I heard about Dembe.
-How is he?
-Not good.
Which is why I came. We have a case.
-I'm not a field agent anymore.
-And I'm not with the bureau.
But Dembe asked me to do this.
Now I'm asking you.
Just this once.
I trained Ken. And I wanna help Dembe--
Congratulations, by the way,
on the wedding. I'm happy for you.
It's been great.
If I wanna keep it that way,
I can't go back.
I promised Peter I wouldn't go back.
Didn't know you trained Ken.
He was in my first class.
He was a good agent and a better man.
I know the stress field work
can put on you. I do.
And still I'm asking.
That's how important I think this is.
So Flagify is a company that warns clients
about security issues or red flags.
It has multiple platforms, each designed
to fulfill a different security need.
Now, ShadowSee is piracy detection.
It scans up to a million websites an hour
to determine
if a specific product is being used
in violation to copyright restrictions.
-Now, GreyLock uses keywords to, um--
-[cell phone buzzing]
I'm sorry. It's--
Nothing. It's nothing.
-You were talking about GreyLock.
-Yes.
GreyLock uses keywords
to determine sentiment analysis.
-This function has a forensic--
-[cell phone buzzing]
Uh, dear. I think I should take this.
I'm so sorry.
I don't invest in sorry.
I invest in focus and concentration.
In the people who have it,
not in the people who don't.
Just-- Just, um-- Sir?
My parents took out
a second mortgage for us.
Tell whoever that is
he just cost them their house.
One second, Nick--
Mr. Cooper.
[monitor beeping]
I hope it wasn't a bad time to bother you.
It wasn't bad.
It was a horribly bad time.
There's the Scotch.
What did Peter say?
What makes you think I told him?
Thanks for coming.
Let's get started.
What about Ressler?
Nice ride.
The answer's no.
You don't know what I'm gonna ask.
You came all the way to Detroit to ask it.
Saw you on the news
talking about Reddington.
At least it sounded like Reddington.
-I was just answering a question.
-Then please answer mine.
Is Reddington involved?
Not really.
"Not really" isn't "no."
Which is my answer.
He still blames Reddington
for what happened.
We all do.
Well, I guess the difference for me,
and maybe you guys as well,
is I believe Mr. Reddington blames himself
and I forgive him for it.
The silicon shield.
Tell me what you know about it.
Right. It's a term used to describe
the protection Taiwan gets
for being the sole manufacturer
of next-gen microchips.
Protection from America
which might go to war
to prevent the supply
from being disrupted.
We're talking about a tripwire.
One the Skinner apparently wants to trip.
-The Skinner?
-Right.
How to explain this?
According to Reddington,
highway robbery and plunder
may not be the second-oldest profession...
But it runs a close third.
The Skinner practices a well-documented
version of brigandage.
The dacoits in India.
Gentlemen Reivers in Scotland.
In Devonshire, the Gubbings.
In America, highwaymen.
Different countries, different centuries.
All outlaws.
-And in France...
-And in France, the écorcheurs.
The flayers.
Armed bands who rose up
in opposition to Charles VII.
They took what they wanted
and when people resisted,
they burned their feet.
The mercs Dembe shot all had this.
Fire surrounding the letter S,
for "the Skinners."
Who burned people alive.
So we know who they were.
Who are they now?
The original Skinner died
quite suddenly in 1452.
He had a fearsome reputation
and his followers worried
that without him,
their days were numbered.
So as no one knew he had died,
they elevated one of their own
to take his place,
beginning a line of succession
that continues to this day.
The Skinner is more myth than man,
so the identity of the man
personifying the myth...
has always been
a carefully guarded secret.
[Aram]
And does Mr. Reddington know the secret?
If he does, he's not saying.
He's not coming back?
Come on, even for Dembe?
How is that possible?
I don't know. And he wouldn't say.
All I know is it's our job
to find the current Skinner
whose goal it was to steal 800,000
of the world's most advanced microchips.
Dembe stopped him once.
Unless we find him, he'll try again.
[Aram] Before we do that...
I know none of us expected
to be here and it's--
It's hard and a little weird.
But if it's okay with you,
I'd like us to take a moment to...
To remember Liz.
You know, uh...
together.
Think we could do that?
I'm embarrassed
I didn't suggest it myself.
[Mierce speaking Kaqchikel]
I bet she's happy here.
She's also asleep.
Mierce has powers, Harold.
All for the good.
Agnes is fine.
What if I wanted to see her?
I don't think that would be a good idea.
I don't know who the current Skinner is,
but I do know his predecessor.
That's where we're gonna start.
[Park] He just showed up,
in the middle of the night?
With a witch?
The more you think about it,
the less sense it makes.
Like a Skinner
living in a retirement community.
[Cooper]
Don't let the salmon shirt fool you.
Remember what Reddington told me
about the old Skinner.
His name is Vincent Duke.
He ran the organization
for almost 30 years.
Built on its history of hijacking
whatever commodity was most in demand.
His predecessors commandeered guns
from the Spanish Armada,
gold from Russian tsars.
Duke's plunder
was a little more contemporary.
Everything from
intellectual property to uranium.
If you know him, why do you
need our help to make contact?
[Raymond] We had a falling out.
Over a word.
-One word?
-Yes.
"Ex."
As in ex-wife. Apparently, she wasn't.
Here we go.
[suspenseful music playing]
-[Aram] You ready for this?
-[Cooper] I'm not looking forward to it.
He's leaving the country club,
turning onto Saw Mill Road.
He's heading your way.
[Cooper] I have a 20.
[tires screeching]
-You all right, sir?
-I'm fine.
Go, deal with it, and get us out of here.
-What the hell happened?
-That's my question.
-You slammed on the brakes.
-I just bought this car. It's brand new.
-You stopped short.
-I stopped--? Oh, so this is my fault?
You hit me from behind.
Everybody, step to the side of the road.
-Who was driving?
-I was. And this man.
-Hands in the air!
-Whoa, take it easy.
-I'm licensed to carry.
-[Park] Up against the car. Now.
[bodyguard] We're both armed security.
If that's true, then there's
nothing to worry about,
but we'll have to check it out.
What's going on?
Officer, this was an accident.
Sir, I'll have to ask you to stay there.
Let's wrap this up before
anyone can crash the party.
[car horn honks]
Vincent. Need a lift?
That's why you've kidnapped me,
to ask me to betray my own organization.
No. To urge you to save it.
What makes you think it needs saving?
Well, I know about the microchips
and the dead FBI agent
and the one in intensive care.
I know port security
has increased as a result,
which certainly hurts my organization.
So you're not here to help me.
You're here to save yourself.
Self-serving as always.
-How is Bianca?
-No idea.
You'd have to ask the golf pro.
The last thing you and I want
is the American government on alert,
adding billions to Homeland Security.
Is that really gonna happen
over a shipment of microchips?
SCG microchips, that, apparently,
none of the brilliant minds
in America know how to make.
Any hint of a weak link
in that supply chain
will be viewed as a huge
national security threat.
I don't like what he did.
But I have no influence on my successor.
Believe me, I've tried to exert it.
You picked an unworthy successor.
That's not a judgment.
I failed spectacularly when I tried.
But it's true, and something
needs to be done about it.
I'm sorry about the golf pro, by the way.
Don't be.
Before they ran off, he fixed my slice.
All in all, a pretty fair exchange.
[Raymond] Vincent, you're certain? "Beck"?
Thank you.
I'll call you when it's resolved.
[cell phone dialing]
[line ringing]
-[Cooper] Cooper.
-Harold, I have news.
The Skinner is in New York
at the Fountain Grand
under the name Clayton Beck.
You trust Duke's intel?
That he's willing to betray his successor?
He understands that the legacy
is more important than any one Skinner.
Why New York? It can't be the microchips.
They're not shipped to the East Coast.
Perhaps he's found
another way to skin this cat.
Listen, I have Edward standing by.
If you want it, you can be wheels up
as soon as you're ready.
That's a generous offer,
and I'll take you up on it.
But before I do, I want to circle back
to Agnes, our conversation earlier.
You were clear about boundaries.
Yes. I want to thank you
for respecting them.
Elizabeth made you Agnes' guardian.
She was confident you'd do right by her.
I have no doubt you have and you will.
When will you tell me...
what she means to you?
I can tell you now.
She means everything to me.
[Park] Sorry, but something's come up.
I don't know how late,
but, yes, as soon as possible.
Mm-hm. Love you too.
Take it from me, keeping secrets
is not the secret to a happy marriage.
I'm not keeping secrets.
I'm keeping the peace.
-Isn't it possible Peter will understand?
-How could he? I don't.
What am I doing in the field?
I left for my mental health.
Yeah, well, you and me both.
Well, here's a pleasant surprise.
Aram called me about Dembe.
He'll appreciate your concern.
I came out of concern
and curiosity about his health
and how the hell he became an agent.
You look a mess.
Where is Aram, anyway?
That's another reason I'm here,
to take his place.
He said he had to bail, something about
everything he's been working on
for two years blowing up in his face
and him needing to try to fix it.
You were right, by the way.
Reddington is involved. Sort of.
Then I hope we're never
in the same room together.
Aram tells me we're going after
some 700-year-old pirate.
We don't know his real name,
but Dembe's given us a description,
and he's on his way
to a hotel in New York, and so are we.
You sure this is right?
The concierge said that Beck came here.
Said he asked for directions
about an hour ago. Why, he didn't know.
Well, it's safe to say
it's not to smell the flowers.
Whatever the reason, we're not leaving
until we find out what it was.
[Aram] Okay. Deep breath.
[doorbell rings]
-Oh. You're not Eric and Barbara.
-No, not Eric and Barbara.
Or Eric or... Barbara.
[Conroy] Is that Eric and Barbara?
-Hello.
-You've got to be kidding me.
I know. I'm way out of line
coming to your home,
but I was hoping you'd give me
just two minutes to explain.
-You had your two minutes.
-You walked out after about a minute,
so I have unused time on the clock.
At least about, say, 40 seconds.
-You should leave.
-Come on, Henry. He's here.
And he's flop sweating.
The party can spare your sparkling
conversation for 40 seconds.
You'll get your 40 seconds
once my guests all have drinks.
I used to be an FBI agent.
The call, during the pitch,
it was from my old boss.
You're wasting your 40 seconds telling me
what you used to do?
He needed help on a case
with national security implications.
He's actually working the case now
without me, because I'm here with you
flop sweating.
I'll be back.
Don't sit.
Don't touch.
Gotcha.
So Dembe's an FBI agent now, huh?
-I think it's cool.
-Special agent for the FBI?
It sounds like you have
a problem with that.
Problem, questions.
We started with a background check.
Did the bureau abolish them?
Hang on. That's him.
Right side of the statue.
[Cooper]
Maintain your position. What's he doing?
[Park] Watching the concession stand.
Looks like he's on comms.
He's got company.
All right, I've got a second suspect.
Near the Madison Avenue exit.
Careful. We have to assume they're armed.
He's surveilling somebody by the vendor,
the family buying hot dogs.
I see them.
Who the hell is that?
[chuckling]
I'm sending you a photo.
-Sir, I told Ressler--
-I know what you told him.
But the Skinner's tracking someone.
Tell me who.
-I'm not at my desk.
-Then sit at someone else's.
-Aram, this is important.
-Hang on.
Okay. Um...
An Asian man, that's it?
-The chips come from Taiwan.
-Okay, great. That helps.
-SCG microchips.
-That's better. It helps narrow it down.
All you need to do is hack
into the employee database.
That's not great or better.
I can't do that.
Sir, I can do that.
I know how to, but I can't, not--
Not from here.
Call me back with a name.
Sir, sir? I don't-- Sir? Sir?
Okay.
Yes. There you are.
-What are you doing?
-Nothing.
Uh, not nothing. I needed to hack into
a company's website for a second.
-On my computer? In my house?
-It looks bad, doesn't it?
But my boss needs this information.
Beck's on the move.
-I thought you weren't with the FBI.
-I'm not, technically. Wha--
It's complicated.
It's not. It's simple, really.
Get away from the computer,
or I'll have you arrested.
-[cell phone buzzing]
-Do not answer that phone!
Sir, I have a name. Chen Yu-Lan,
SCG's chief technology officer.
Certainly, someone who would have details
to the company's manufacturing process.
Couldn't steal the microchips so he goes
after the man who made them. Great work.
All it takes is a little focus
and concentration.
-Beck's following them out.
-Stop them. Move in now.
[suspenseful music playing]
Get in the van. Get in the van!
Get in the van! Let's go!
Get in the van!
Stop! FBI!
Tell J. Edgar or whoever it is,
the more you try to stop me,
-the more innocent people get hurt.
-[woman] No!
[monitor beeping]
[Cooper] Leave? You can't leave. Not now.
I did what I came to do,
identified the Skinner.
Who we now know has abducted
a man capable of mass producing
the world's most advanced microchips,
as well as his wife and daughter.
What's happening? What are you doing?
Why are you doing this?
Because I'm following orders.
I was told to. If you're smart,
you'll do the same.
[Raymond] I don't know who his client is,
but if I were the Skinner, I'd think big.
The superpowers
want to be self-sufficient.
Who knows? It's possible some
government bankrolled this from the start.
And you're just gonna walk away?
I recently spent time
in a monastery above Boudhanath,
with sweeping views of Kathmandu,
meditating alongside 36 Tibetan monks.
I achieved an inner harmony there...
that was more mind-blowing
than any psychedelic,
and yet more fragile...
than an origami swan.
It has to be cared for.
If I stay here...
it will be torn and crushed.
Be honest, is this about inner peace
or about my reluctance
to reintroduce you into Agnes' life?
A reluctance I know you blatantly ignored.
Yes. You have her watched.
That was a pleasant surprise.
Nothing will happen to that girl.
Not while she's in my care.
She didn't see me.
We need your help.
We can't find the Skinner without it.
Keeping the girl from him is cruel.
Is that what you want, to be cruel?
[knocking]
-I'm told you're feeling better.
-Hmm. I am.
Mostly because I'm wasted.
I think you're entitled.
You look good.
Sorry about your partner.
Thank you.
Are you all right? You look a mess.
Okay, is it really that bad?
Yeah, it's-- It's not great.
[Dembe]
Was I hallucinating, or was Raymond here?
He was, but he's gone.
Gone as in, like, he's "gone" gone?
-It seems so.
-[Park] Along with his resources,
his contacts, his jet and any hope of
finding Skinner and the family he took.
[Cooper] I don't know about that.
We know his real name
and have a list of known addresses.
-I brought you a dossier.
-Wait.
A dossier that you copied
on Agnes' printer.
The unicorn stationery,
that's a nice touch.
Okay, yes, we are a bit ragtag.
We're up against a well-financed
Blacklister with no budget.
Or access to any databases
and no authorization.
And you thought we were here
to cheer you up.
Every two hours, an ICU nurse debrides me.
-[Dembe screams]
-She snips off dead skin with tweezers.
It's slow and painful.
And it's the only way to heal.
We all have dead skin.
All of us.
And healing will be slow and painful.
But seeing you here,
I can't think of a better way to start.
So now what?
We have a case to solve,
and no time to solve it.
We start right away.
I'll stay and bring Dembe up to speed.
If you have anything
to rearrange in your lives,
rearrange it
and meet back here in an hour.
["Head On" playing]
♪ Action ♪
♪ Reaction ♪
♪ Stay with it... ♪
Okay, okay. Are you insane?
-You talked to Conroy?
-You went to his house?
Sorry. If there's any way
I can make it up to you, Nick.
You could drop your pants.
Except, uh, maybe that?
Mm. I'm serious. I need to see them.
Stones, and I quote,
"The size of Montana."
Uh, what are you talking about?
Conroy. I don't know what you did,
but the guy was impressed.
He said that?
He said that about my stones?
That's not all he said.
-He's in?
-He said he's intrigued.
He wants to hear more. Like, now.
-As in now?
-Yeah.
As in our dreams are about to come true.
Unless you have
somewhere else you'd rather be.
No. Uh, yeah,
I wanted to talk to you about that.
I do need to be some place.
Hey.
No, not yet.
Yeah, long day, but...
not at the office.
I had a case... in the field.
I should've told you. Sorry I didn't.
I know how you feel, I do.
But the family was abducted.
No, it's not over.
Not even for tonight.
An agent is here, the bearded one.
♪ Head on ♪
This is the last place I wanted to be.
And yet here you are.
Please, sit.
Liz, she knew all about
being where she didn't want to be,
doing what she didn't want to do.
Like running your empire.
All she wanted was a life with Agnes.
But the Blacklist changed her mind,
knowing the world would be
safer with it than without it.
That's why she agreed
to be your successor,
why she gave up everything...
including her life.
To protect it and keep it running.
And then she died.
And we walked away
and left the Blacklist to die with her.
A life with Agnes wasn't all she wanted.
She wanted a life with you.
I know you don't need this.
I don't either.
As painful as it was to walk away,
it's just as painful to come back.
Maybe more.
But the Blacklist was her calling,
and if we loved her, it has to be ours.
That's why I came back.
Because as much as I hate you,
I loved her more.
His real name is Graeme Anderson.
He was a foster kid,
bounced around until he aged out.
Two years unaccounted for,
then he does a year at Stanford,
where he becomes obsessed with the French
adventurer and smuggler Henry de Monfreid.
Of course, a former Skinner.
Why are you telling me this?
Graeme Anderson
is the next name on the Blacklist.
Your Blacklist, the one that Liz died for.
Now, whether she died in vain
is up to you.
I like him.
He has a good soul.
I believe he does.
I'm less certain about mine.
[dramatic music playing]